docs/easypost.rst, before:

===========================================================
Easypost; A basic CLI postfix/dovecot administration system
===========================================================

Author: Jelle 'wires' Herold ``jelle {at} defekt {dot} nl``

Requirements
============

This is intended for Debian/Ubuntu based systems. Minimum requirements:

 - Dovecot
 - Postfix
 - Postgresql
 - Python-sqlobject
 - APG automatic password generator

``sudo aptitude install postfix-pgsql dovecot-imapd python-sqlobject postgresql apg``


Setup
=====

We shall be needing a password for the database user, so we generate a 12
character long password consisting of numeric, capital and lowercase characters.

``apg -M NCL -n1 -m12 -x12``


Postgresql
----------

First, postgresql setup. We create a password protected user
with limited capabilities, called ``easypost``. The password
is encrypted using MD5 (see ``man createuser`` for details).
Also, we create a database called ``easypost`` for this user.::

  sudo -u postgres bash
  createuser -DRESP easypost
  createdb -O easypost easypost
  exit

(you enter the password we generated earlier)

We are running postfix and postgresql on the same system. So
we first configure postgres to accept connections from user.
Add the following line to
``/etc/postgresql/8.2/main/pg_hba.conf``.::

 local easypost easypost md5
 host  easypost easypost 127.0.0.1/32 md5

(Make sure this is above the line that says ``local all all
ident sameuser``. Also, the second line is not needed if there
is a line like ``host all all 127.0.0.1/32 md5``.)

Now restart postgresql with ``/etc/init.d/postgresql-8.3 restart``.

That's it. You can test this (as any user) with:::

  psql easypost -U easypost
  psql easypost -U easypost -l localhost

(This should ask for the passphrase).

Setup the system.
-----------------

 - read configuration from /etc/easypost/config
 - if not found, read configuration from ./easypost.cfg
 - if not found, fail

 - connect to database and create tables

 - if not exists <postfix_conf_dir>, create it
 - write example postfix configuration files to this dir

 - if not exists <dovecot_conf_dir>, create it
 - write example dovecot configuration files to this dir

``easypost setup -p <postfix_conf_dir> -d <dovecot_conf_dir>``

Usage
=====

Creating users and email adresses
---------------------------------

First, create the user named <username> with the associated
primary email address.

If you specify --unix and a local UNIX user named <username>
exists, the mailbox will be owned by that user and placed
in that users homedir.

In the configuration file can be configured where this
mailbox should be placed, e.g. /var/www/<domain>/mail/<user>

``easypost create user <username> <primaryEmailAddress> [--unix]``

``easypost remove user <username>``

Add a email address to a user (likewise, remove).

``easypost user <username> add address <address>``

``easypost user <username> remove address <address>``

Password changes
----------------

(Re-)generate a random password for the specified user, and optionally email
this somewhere, including system informat (e.g. what mail server to use, etc)

``easypost user <username> generate-password [--mail-to <email_address>]``

Change the password interactively.

``easypost user <username> change-password``


Listing database contents
-------------------------

List all users. Optionally limit to all users at <domain> or
with email adress <address>.

``easypost list users [--domain <domain>] [--address <address>]``

Likewise, list all email adresses. Optionally for a domain or specific user.

``easypost list addresses [--domain <domain>] [--user <username>]``

List all domains (for a specific user).

``easypost list domains [--user <username>]``

Commit message:

note on outdated sqlobject
git-svn-id: http://easypost.googlecode.com/svn/trunk@5 4c8e1b94-4054-0410-9f97-17490ffc63a7

docs/easypost.rst, after:

===========================================================
Easypost; A basic CLI postfix/dovecot administration system
===========================================================

Author: Jelle 'wires' Herold ``jelle {at} defekt {dot} nl``

Requirements
============

This is intended for Debian/Ubuntu based systems. Minimum requirements:

 - Dovecot
 - Postfix
 - Postgresql
 - Python-sqlobject
 - APG automatic password generator

``sudo aptitude install postfix-pgsql dovecot-imapd python-sqlobject postgresql apg``


note:: python-sqlobject seems to depend on python2.4, which I'm not running.
So, I suggest you install that using ``easy_install sqlobject``, which
is in ``python-setuptools``. 

Setup
=====

We shall be needing a password for the database user, so we generate a 12
character long password consisting of numeric, capital and lowercase characters.

``apg -M NCL -n1 -m12 -x12``


Postgresql
----------

First, postgresql setup. We create a password protected user
with limited capabilities, called ``easypost``. The password
is encrypted using MD5 (see ``man createuser`` for details).
Also, we create a database called ``easypost`` for this user.::

  sudo -u postgres bash
  createuser -DRESP easypost
  createdb -O easypost easypost
  exit

(you enter the password we generated earlier)

We are running postfix and postgresql on the same system. So
we first configure postgres to accept connections from user.
Add the following line to
``/etc/postgresql/8.2/main/pg_hba.conf``.::

 local easypost easypost md5
 host  easypost easypost 127.0.0.1/32 md5

(Make sure this is above the line that says ``local all all
ident sameuser``. Also, the second line is not needed if there
is a line like ``host all all 127.0.0.1/32 md5``.)

Now restart postgresql with ``/etc/init.d/postgresql-8.3 restart``.

That's it. You can test this (as any user) with:::

  psql easypost -U easypost
  psql easypost -U easypost -l localhost

(This should ask for the passphrase).

Setup the system.
-----------------

 - read configuration from /etc/easypost/config
 - if not found, read configuration from ./easypost.cfg
 - if not found, fail

 - connect to database and create tables

 - if not exists <postfix_conf_dir>, create it
 - write example postfix configuration files to this dir

 - if not exists <dovecot_conf_dir>, create it
 - write example dovecot configuration files to this dir

``easypost setup -p <postfix_conf_dir> -d <dovecot_conf_dir>``

Usage
=====

Creating users and email adresses
---------------------------------

First, create the user named <username> with the associated
primary email address.

If you specify --unix and a local UNIX user named <username>
exists, the mailbox will be owned by that user and placed
in that users homedir.

In the configuration file can be configured where this
mailbox should be placed, e.g. /var/www/<domain>/mail/<user>

``easypost create user <username> <primaryEmailAddress> [--unix]``

``easypost remove user <username>``

Add a email address to a user (likewise, remove).

``easypost user <username> add address <address>``

``easypost user <username> remove address <address>``

Password changes
----------------

(Re-)generate a random password for the specified user, and optionally email
this somewhere, including system informat (e.g. what mail server to use, etc)

``easypost user <username> generate-password [--mail-to <email_address>]``

Change the password interactively.

``easypost user <username> change-password``


Listing database contents
-------------------------

List all users. Optionally limit to all users at <domain> or
with email adress <address>.

``easypost list users [--domain <domain>] [--address <address>]``

Likewise, list all email adresses. Optionally for a domain or specific user.

``easypost list addresses [--domain <domain>] [--user <username>]``

List all domains (for a specific user).

``easypost list domains [--user <username>]``
